# Project--1
This repository contains an analysis for the impact COVID has had on the housing market.

We wanted to determine if the COVID-19 pandemic hd an impact on the US housing market. Our hypothesis was that it in fact, did have an impact on the market due to a number of contributing factors. In order to investgate, we used Zillow's API to pull data. We were able to focus on a data population that would represent one state from each region of the US in order to support our hypthesis. We focused on Detroit, Dallas, Denver, Los Angeles, Tampa, and New York speicfically. We then ran code to filter the dataframe to zoom in on 2019-2023. This way we could see values before, during, and after COVID. 

After pooling data on these cities we figured that some other contributing factors to fluctuations in the market would be cost of materials and earnings amongst buyers. Research showed that lumber ane copper were two of the most important construction materials that historically affected the cost of homes. For this reason, we found data that showed the cost of these materials respectively, from 2004-present day. Lumber appeared to have increased in cost exponentially while copper became slightly more affordable during 2020-2021 and spiked shortly after. As we know, unemployment and unemployment wages reached a record high during the pandemic. More money was being poured into the economy and people were able to afford more things however there was a supply issue in most industries. In turn, mortgage rates decreased for a short period of time and most of the homes were being purchased at higher rates. Eventually, things leveled out and there was a decrease in the amount of homes available for purchase on the market.

Visualization were generated to show the home value in each city from 2019-2023 as well as the inventory of homes for the same years. We chose line graphs to illustrate the trends clearly. The cost of copper and lumber visualizations are from 2004-2023.


The conclusion of this analysis based on the data collected is that COVID has had a substantial impact on the housing market. An increase in the cost of building materials has contributed to a decrease in housing inventory across the nation. Due to housing inventory being unable to meet demand, we have seen a surge in average home values nationwide, or at least in every city included within this analysis.

Data was collected from Zillow for national and regional home values and inventory. Data was also collected from Macrotrends.net for historical prices for building materials. Source of Data: https://www.macrotrends.net/2637/lumber-prices-historical-chart-data https://www.macrotrends.net/1476/copper-prices-historical-chart-data https://www.zillow.com/research/data/
